you're sitting in your home having
breakfast when suddenly the ground opens
up and swallows it completely
leaving you only seconds to run away
sinkholes happen when the water erodes
underground rock layers
they can happen suddenly or form
gradually and send warning signs
a sinkhole can also release toxic gases
from under the ground
making it even more catastrophic
sometimes even huge ships sink in the
open seas for no
visible reason the reason is often the
pockets of bubbles that underwater
volcanoes produce
even while they're sleeping those
productive magma factories are hidden
under 8
500 feet of water when they wake up they
act just like land volcanoes
and they can cause destructive tsunamis
when the winds and ocean currents turn
into beasts
they have the power of moving entire
walls of ice
30 feet tall on deland it happens mostly
in early spring
when the ice is thawing but hasn't
melted yet
nothing can stop those ice tsunamis on
their way of destruction
on a fine summer evening of 1854
the american ship shooting star was on
its way to indonesia
suddenly the ocean in front of it turned
white
was it some mysterious sea monster or
maybe mermaid tricks
the sailors dubbed it milky c all that
white glow
was caused by billions of trillions of
shiny bacteria in the water
and it still happens today
powerful storms and cyclones can turn
the sea into a giant bath
filled with foam when that foam moves
ashore
it fills a whole town luckily foamy
storms are extremely rare
they might look harmless but have the
power of destroying property causing
floods
and taking lives plus they bring a scary
surprise of sea snakes on land
it spreads in a matter of minutes
covering huge areas with its hungry
flames
a wildfire can reach the speed of 14
miles per hour
and it's easily the most feared natural
disaster
it affects people's lives thousands of
miles away
polluting the air and causing breathing
problems
even advanced technologies can't predict
it and controlling it
is also near impossible
in the hottest and one of the driest
places on earth
africa's data kill desert temperatures
often rise above 120 degrees fahrenheit
the out of this world landscape has many
active volcanoes and geysers that spit
out toxic gases
like chlorine and sulfur the vibrantly
green
electric blue and yellow waters are all
rain and sea
water warmed up by magma one wrong step
here
and you'd be gone for good
when tectonic plates that make up the
earth's surface clash
waves of powerful energy get out this is
how
an earthquake is born also known as the
most common
and devastating natural phenomenon on
this planet
thousands of them happen every year and
as they cause tsunamis
landslides fire and famine the damage is
always
huge now we find ourselves in the name
desert in southern africa
you notice a strange phenomenon
stretching hundreds of miles
these unusual round patches in the sand
have been dubbed
fairy circles their diameters can be
anywhere from
six to fifty feet across one theory says
the circles are made by
sand termites they dig holes to store
water and eat all the roots of plants
so that nothing grows on the patches
other versions
claim that it's all the fault of
radiation or a toxic
plant that affects everything around
hey not all lightning strikes from the
sky there's a very rare phenomenon
called a dirty thunderstorm during this
event
lightning is created not by clouds in
the sky but a volcano
japan's sugar ejima is one of the most
famous active volcanoes in the world
almost every day it erupts and releases
black clouds into the air
lightning forms inside these clouds
during any storm
ice crystals collide with each other and
create electricity
this is how ordinary lightning appears
during a dirty thunderstorm
particles of volcanic ash collide
instead of ice crystals
our journey continues on the water we
get on a boat and sail away from the
shore
it doesn't matter where we are because
this phenomenon happens
all over the world the sea is crystal
clear and calm
there's no wind but what's that
you hear a loud hum within seconds a
massive wave 45 feet high
appears from the calm sea surface
luckily your boat manages to stay afloat
and the wave disappears as suddenly as
it appeared
you've just survived an attack from a
rogue wave
some scientists believe they appear when
the surface sea current collides with a
strong headwind
others say it's born from the collision
of warm and cold currents
but the most interesting theory is that
waves are formed by something called
kinetic vampirism according to this
version
under certain natural conditions waves
acquire the ability to exchange kinetic
energy
and among all the waves there will be
one the vampire
it absorbs and collects energy from all
the others and then
releases it in one blow this explains
the impact force
and its sudden disappearance our next
stop is the atakama desert in northern
chile
it's one of the driest places on earth
usually getting less than a half an inch
of rain a year
but every five to seven years flowers
randomly bloom here
it's connected with the el nino
phenomenon where warm ocean temperatures
create more precipitation on land
then the yellow sands of the atacama get
colored purple
white green and pink blooms from over
200 unique flower species
but strangely enough the desert won't
bloom if it gets too much rain
back to australia we arrive at the town
of wagga wagga
in new south wales it's may winter
starts next month here
but the temperature is comfortably cool
the grass is still green
it's bright and sunny in the distance
you see white fields covered in snow
but as you get closer you realize that's
not snow at all
it's a blanket of spider webs and this
is
a completely natural phenomenon it's
something a lot of spider species do
called ballooning they'll crawl to a
high up place
say a tree or a telephone pole and
release a stream of silk
the wind catches that silk and the
spiders take flight
if enough of them do it at once as in
millions
you get a mass spider migration and a
scene that looks like something from
your worst
nightmare when this spider rain ends
the land is covered in webs fields trees
fences
everything around it's totally harmless
to people though
pretty inconvenient well good luck
sleeping tonight
at first glance this pretty waterfall
located in minnesota in the u.s
looks like your average waterfall what's
interesting about this waterfall
is that it has two different bodies of
falling water
one side has water falling into another
body of water lake superior
the other one has water that falls
straight into a huge
natural hole in the ground where does
this water lead
well that's the mysterious part
no one seems to know people visiting the
waterfall have dropped sticks and other
objects down the disappearing waterfall
but they never see their items reappear
downstream
in the past scientists put the water to
the test
by releasing dye into the waterfall
they've even dropped large amounts of
ping-pong balls down there
but they've never found a trace of the
dye in any bodies of water in the
area so where is this water going
well most of you will agree that this
water has to go somewhere
perhaps it's going into the ground but
wouldn't have to come out somewhere
scientists are still working on figuring
this one out
can you believe that there's a place on
earth with its own ecosystem and
atmosphere
similar to another planet well start
believing
mobile cave located in southeastern
romania
remained closed in complete darkness for
a whopping 5.5 million years
it wasn't until workers discovered the
cave when they were looking for a place
to build
that anyone learned about it scientists
carved out an opening to the cave
and found that a completely sustained
ecosystem
was thriving inside as a pathway was
carved through the rock
past numerous tunnels scientists found a
lake of sulfuric water
that stank like rotten eggs the air was
filled with hydrogen sulfide
and had 100 times more carbon dioxide
than earth's air contains
needless to say this air is completely
toxic
what's even crazier is that a whole
ecosystem has been existing in this cave
with 33 species that can't be found
anywhere
else on earth this cave gives us a
glimpse of what could possibly exist on
other planets
with completely different atmospheres
how it managed to exist on earth
all this time without anyone knowing is
rather
unbelievable isn't it now picture this
you're watching a volcano erupt which is
a scary view by itself
but suddenly you notice ominous bright
flashes
lighting up the sky over the volcano it
takes the nightmarishness of the
experience to a whole new level
there is not one but two perfectly good
scientific explanations for the
phenomenon of volcanic lighting
one cause is static electricity which
occurs when
dense ash particles rub together not
very high above the ground
the other source of volcanic lightning
is high above the surface
near the stratosphere where chaotically
moving ice crystals set free
powerful jolts what looks like frozen
flying saucers is
in fact packets of highly flammable and
combustible methane gas
trapped underwater it forms psychedelic
landscapes and stunning patterns
typical for northern lakes such as lake
abraham in alberta canada
these bubbles appear when dead animals
leaves and plants
fall into the water and get consumed by
bacteria
these bacteria later excrete methane gas
but don't be fooled by the beauty of
this phenomenon
when spring comes the ice melts and the
methane bubbles start to fizz and pop
in a most amazing way you wouldn't want
to light a match in the area
you could provoke a massive explosion
on top of that methane is the gas which
creates a greenhouse effect and
therefore warms up the planet in 2010
pakistan experienced the worst flood in
the country's history
this natural disaster hit more than 14
million people
with 10 years worth of rainfall covering
the country in less than a week
people lost their homes countless
buildings were completely ruined
and rivers burst over their banks but
something unique and unexpected came
from the aftermath of the flood
tons of insects had to look for a
shelter above the ground
and spiders chose to nestle in trees as
a result
they cocooned their new homes in such
thick spider webs
they were visible from a distance
honestly this view gives me chills
there must be thousands of spiders
lurking in these trees
imagine you're surfing a perfect wave
and then it suddenly freezes
well it sure sounds creepy but couldn't
possibly happen in real life right
wrong you can see mind-blowing frozen
waves in antarctica
these waves occur when ice gets
compressed and the ever-increasing
pressure
squeezes the air bubbles out as for the
beautiful blue color
it's the result of ice melting and
refreezing kauai jian volcano in
indonesia
is not your ordinary lava belching
mountain
instead of producing black smoke and red
lava as most volcanoes do
this eccentric guy lets out a blue flame
and electric blue lava
this phenomenon occurs because the
volcano contains some of the highest
levels of sulfur
in the world and when sulfuric gasses
interact with scorching air
and get lit by the molten lava they
start to turn blue
unfortunately you can see this
mesmerizing sight
only at night by the way the world's
largest acid lake
is also located inside this crater
in 2018 the legendary waterfalls
located at the border between new york
state and ontario canada
managed to shock everyone into silence
tourists who arrived to admire the power
of the roaring water
were astonished to find niagara falls
frozen
i'm jumping ahead of myself the
waterfalls weren't frozen per se
since such a feat is impossible for a
mass of flowing water that huge
but microscopic water droplets that
became airborne off niagara falls
as well as the mist formed a crust of
ice over the top of rushing water
as a result when looking at the
waterfalls you'd think for sure
they were frozen in reality the water
kept flowing but it was hidden
beneath the ice if you visited the
swamps of north carolina at the
beginning of 2018
you never would have forgotten the view
that you would have been greeted with
imagine ponds filled with ice cold water
and covered with ice
easy huh now picture dozens of alligator
snouts that are poking out of the ponds
still and frozen in the eyes despite
this terrifying picture
the animals are very much alive that's
only a very special crocodile way to
survive abnormal cold weather
since their nostrils are above the water
the predators can breathe
while their bodies are in a
hibernation-like state
it allows the animals to conserve energy
and stay warm
and alive in march 2018
people who looked up in the sky in
northern nevada
could see the rarest and most bizarre
cloud ever
a horseshoe cloud unless you know the
scientific
explanation of this phenomenon it can
scare and puzzle
even the most experienced sky watcher
but meteorologists know that such a
horseshoe vortex
happens when a flat cloud travels over a
column of warm rising air
this air not only gives the cloud its
impressive shape
but also adds some spin to its movement
unfortunately such clouds are very
fleeting and usually last for only
several minutes
on the other hand you don't need too
much time to figure out what this cloud
looks like anyway
on march 19 2018 the inhabitants of
alabama had to run for their lives
from the huge chunks of ice falling from
the sky
it was the infamous hail storm of
alabama which caused
millions of dollars worth of damage
after the hail storm
it looked as if the place had been
thoroughly trashed by savages
broken shop windows smashed car
windshields broken billboards and holes
in the roofs
but what made researchers really excited
was a hailstone
found near the town of coleman alabama
this softball-sized monster
was more than five inches across and
thus
set a new state record well i'm just
glad i wasn't
under that gigantic hailstone when it
landed
since we're talking about the most
baffling natural phenomena it would be a
crime not to mention snow
in a desert yep in the winter of 2018
the inhabitants of the sahara desert one
of the driest and hottest places on this
planet
woke up to discover a thick blanket of
snow covering the sand
in some places the layer of snow
enveloping the dunes
reached a staggering 15 inches
meteorologists however had an
explanation for this exciting phenomenon
they stated that cold pools of air
combined with the precipitation from the
most recent storm
resulted in a snowfall instead of rain
if a storm holds back your long planned
picnic
keep calm and think about how lucky you
are that it's not the katambo
the world's longest lightning storm the
heart of the storm which repeats
every year is over lake maricaibo
venezuela
and it towers way higher than your
regular thunderstorm
this natural phenomenon lasts for up to
160 days
and generates nearly 300 lightning
strikes a day
you've probably heard how they say that
lightning doesn't strike in the same
place twice
well the contambo doesn't seem to know
about this rule
at least it doesn't prevent storm clouds
from gathering in the very same place
year after year at the bottom of the
pacific ocean
off the west coast of north america
there's a subduction zone
that's when two tectonic plates meet and
one starts to bend and slide below the
other
the cascadian trench runs from northern
california to vancouver island
in this case the oceanic floor is being
forced beneath the north american
landmass
the floor moves around 1.6 inches per
year
but the upper part of the system is
stuck and now the north american plate
is compressed
the pressure keeps building up there and
it needs to be released
it might happen in the form of a
magnitude 9 earthquake
this might cause the coast to sink by
six and a half feet
and could make it move horizontally and
after the earthquake tails off
the coast could experience a tsunami
similar to the wave that hit japan in
2011.
scientists have calculated that in the
last 10 000 years
the area has experienced 41 large
earthquakes
the last magnitude 9 tremor occurred in
january
1700 experts currently believe there's a
37 percent chance
that a 7.1 magnitude tremor will occur
in the next
50 years the sun's big one
luckily for us one of the worst solar
flares ever recorded happened when our
civilization wasn't vulnerable to the
fury of the sun
it's known as the carrington event it
happened in september 1859
long before the development of modern
technology a huge wave of plasma and
magnetic field
washed over the earth's own protective
magnetic layer
this produced an enormous solar storm
this led to intense auroras that lit up
the skies
but aside from the pretty lights the
strong electrical currents that came
with the storm had major consequences
the telegraph communication systems
covering both europe and north america
went down fires blazed and disconnected
power supplies kept relaying their eerie
messages
in 1989 another bad solar storm struck
the earth
the most extreme results were seen in
quebec canada the power grid went
totally offline
and six million people were left without
electricity
since solar flares happen often some
scientists predict that another powerful
storm will occur
soon they've named it the big one big
solar storms like this happen only once
every 500 years
scientists believe it'll be powerful
enough to knock out electrical and
communication systems around the world
for days
months or even years